Added curl commands to the grant type documentation (#4800)
wso2/docs-is: en/includes/references/grant-types.md

- [SAML 2.0 bearer grant](#saml-20-bearer-grant)

#### {{product_name}}'s custom grants

- [Organization switch grant](#organization-switch-grant)

The following sections explore each grant type in further detail.

{{grant_type_configs_note}}

## Authorization code grant

The Authorization code flow is a secure method for clients to obtain an access token by exchanging an authorization code received through the front channel. As the access token is directly transmitted to the client via a secure back channel, it is not exposed to the user's user agent (e.g. web browser) reducing its risk of being intercepted by a malicious party.

The following diagram shows how the authorization code flow works.

![How the authorization code grant works]({{base_path}}/assets/img/references/grants/authorization-code.png)

1. The user visits the client application and requests for login through {{ product_name }}.
2. The client application redirects the authorization code request to {{ product_name }} (front channel).

    === "Request format (/authorize)"

        ``` bash
        {{base_url}}/oauth2/authorize
        ?response_type=code
        &client_id=<CLIENT_ID>

>         &redirect_uri=<REDIRECT_URI>

Reviewer: shall we mention the `scope` paramter as well

Reviewer: In the example we need to add more than one scopes and clearly show that if you want to pass more than one scope separate from spaces

        ```

    === "Sample request (/authorize)"

        ```bash
        {{base_url_example}}/oauth2/authorize
        ?response_type=code
        &client_id=cHuGSLCm77ApRFcsdyh_4sdFU2XYa
        &redirect_uri=https://localhost:3000
        ```

3. {{ product_name }} prompts the user to enter credentials.

> 4. The user enters the credentials.

Reviewer: This is not just the user credentials login, what ever the configured login options of the application will be prompted.
user needs to authenticate from one login option

Better to reword step 3 and 4

5. After successful authentication, {{ product_name }} sends the authorization code to the client application.

    ``` bash

>     http://localhost:3000?code=9142d4cad58c66d0a5edfad8952192

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    https://localhost:3000?code=9142d4cad58c66d0a5edfad8952192
```
since `https://localhost:3000` is used as redirect_uri

    ```
6. The client application uses this authorization code to request an access token from {{ product_name }} (back channel).

    === "Request format (/token)"

        ``` bash
        curl -v -X POST {{base_url}}/oauth2/token\ 
        --basic -u <CLIENT_ID>:<CLIENT_SECRET> \
        --header "Content-Type:application/x-www-form-urlencoded;charset=UTF-8" -k \
        --data-urlencode "grant_type=authorization_code" \
        --data-urlencode "code=<AUTHORIZATION_CODE>" \
        --data-urlencode "redirect_uri=<REDIRECT_URI>"
        ```

    === "Sample request (/token)"

        ```bash
        curl -v -X POST {{base_url_example}}/oauth2/token\ 
        --basic -u Ei0Wf9bzfsdvdd0lfwSvTPje8kcEa:HFI2S2HR9kdfg543f5xMpuIAjgJxnZQUT1_e52ga \
        --header "Content-Type:application/x-www-form-urlencoded;charset=UTF-8" -k \
        --data-urlencode "grant_type=authorization_code" \

>         --data-urlencode "code=0sdvsw1-05a2-3ebe-bb42-e007160b46f4" \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        --data-urlencode "code=9142d4cad58c66d0a5edfad8952192" \
```
Let's use the same code mentioned as received authz code. Otherwise, reader is confusing on the sample values

    === "Request format (/token)"

        ```bash
        curl -k {{base_url}}/oauth2/token \
        --header "Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded"
        --header "Authorization: Basic <Base64Encoded(CLIENT_ID:CLIENT_SECRET)>" \
        --data-urlencode "grant_type=refresh_token" \
        --data-urlencode "refresh_token=<REFRESH_TOKEN>"
        ```
    
    === "Sample request (/token)"

        ```bash
        curl -k {{base_url_example}}/oauth2/token \
        --header "Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded"
        --header "Authorization: Basic RWkwV2Y5YnpmTXE0UTBsZndTdlRQamU4a2NFYTpIRvvyUzJIUjlrZE9YMjBXTG9JNmY1eE1wdUlBamdKeG5aUVVUMV9lNTJnYQ==" \
        --data-urlencode "grant_type=refresh_token" \
        --data-urlencode "refresh_token=96a6dsd97-0120-3bec-86be-21b58f600a07"
        ```

4. {{ product_name }} sends a new access token and a new refresh token.

    ```json
    {
    "access_token":"b9ed0658-f187-3d39-a4f1-6d42522e1eee",
    "refresh_token":"3426ff78-62a5-32fa-be6e-74ab69d4cbf4",
    "token_type":"Bearer",
    "expires_in":3600
    }
    ```

## Client credentials grant

> The client credentials flow provides a secure way for client applications to obtain an access token without user authentication. This can be useful in scenarios where the client application needs to access its own resources, such as data storage or APIs, without requiring user authentication.

Reviewer 2: Let's say that this grant type is commonly used for machine machine communication

However, it is important to ensure that the client credentials are kept secure, as any party that posses these credentials can obtain access tokens and access the client's resources.

The following diagram shows how the client credentials grant flow works.

![How the client credentials grant works]({{base_path}}/assets/img/references/grants/client-credentials.png)

1. The client application sends its credentials (`client_id` and `client_secret`) to {{ product_name }} and requests an access token.

    === "Request format (/token)"

        ```bash

>         curl -v -k -X POST {{base_url}}/oauth/token \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        curl -v -k -X POST {{base_url}}/oauth2/token \
```

        --header "Authorization: Basic <Base64Encoded(CLIENT_ID:CLIENT_SECRET)>" \
        --header "Content-Type:application/x-www-form-urlencoded" \

>         --data-urlencode "grant_type=client_credentials" 

Reviewer: better to include scope parameter as well

Reviewer: In the example we need to add more than one scopes and clearly show that if you want to pass more than one scope separate from spaces

        ```
    
    === "Sample request (/token)"

        ```bash

>         curl -v -k -X POST {{base_url_example}}/oauth/token \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        curl -v -k -X POST {{base_url_example}}/oauth2/token \
```

        --header "Authorization: Basic RWkwV2Y5YnpmTXE0UTBsZndTdlRQamU4a2NFYTpIRvvyUzJIUjlrZE9YMjBXTG9JNmY1eE1wdUlBamdKeG5aUVVUMV9lNTJnYQ==" \
        --header "Content-Type:application/x-www-form-urlencoded" \
        --data-urlencode "grant_type=client_credentials"
        ```

2. {{ product_name }} sends the access token to the client application.

    ```json
    {
    "token_type":"Bearer",

>     "expires_in":2061,

Reviewer 2: Shall we stick adding 3600 as the expiry time , other wise the readers may confuse the default expiry times are different in different grant types.

The password grant is primarily used in scenarios where the client application is highly trusted and the user experience is prioritized over security. It is generally not recommended for use in public-facing applications or scenarios where sensitive data is accessed.

The following diagram shows how the password grant flow works.

![How the password grant works]({{base_path}}/assets/img/references/grants/password-grant.png)

1. The user visits the client application and requests for login through {{ product_name }}.
2. The client application requests the user's credentials.
3. The user enters the requested credentials to the client application.

4. The client application sends the user's credentials and requests an access token from {{ product_name }}.

    === "Request format (/token)"

        ```bash
        curl -v -k -X POST {{base_url}}/oauth2/token \
        --header "Authorization: Basic <Base64Encoded(CLIENT_ID:CLIENT_SECRET)>" \
        --header "Content-Type:application/x-www-form-urlencoded;charset=UTF-8" \
        --data-urlencode "grant_type=password" \
        --data-urlencode "username=<username>&password=<password>"

>         ```

Reviewer: let's use scope param as well

    
    === "Sample request (/token)"

        ```bash

>         curl -v -k -X POST {{base_url_example}}/oauth/token \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        curl -v -k -X POST {{base_url_example}}/oauth2/token \
```

The diagram below illustrates the device flow.

![device-authorization-grant-diagram]({{base_path}}/assets/img/references/grants/device-flow.png)

1. The client device sends an access request including its client identifier to {{product_name}}.

    === "Request format (/token)"

        ```bash
        curl -v -k -X POST {{base_url}}/oauth2/device_authorize \
        --header "Content-Type:application/x-www-form-urlencoded" \
        --data-urlencode "client_id=<CLIENT_ID>"
        ```
    
    === "Sample request (/token)"

        ```bash
        curl -v -k -X POST {{base_url_example}}/oauth2/device_authorize \
        --header "Content-Type:application/x-www-form-urlencoded" \
        --data-urlencode "client_id=bbwJEayR_OMwPkAgm9VOMzLnYLga"
        ```

2. {{product_name}} issues a device code, a user code, and a verification URI.

    ```json
    {
    "user_code":"s2DqSNK",
    "device_code":"d3fe0db1-2334-48fa-b7d9-821ecfad10d5",
    "interval":5000,
    "verification_uri_complete":"https://localhost:9443/authenticationendpoint/device.do?user_code=s2DqSNK",

>     "verification_uri":"https://localhost:9443/authenticationendpoint/device.do",

Reviewer: Shouldn't these URL's hostname need to be templated according to the product?

    === "Request format (/token)"

        ```bash
        curl -v -k -X POST {{base_url}}/oauth2/token \
        --header "Content-Type:application/x-www-form-urlencoded" \
        --data-urlencode "grant_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:device_code"
        --data-urlencode "client_id=<CLIENT_ID>"
        --data-urlencode "device_code=<DEVICE_CODE>"
        ```
    
    === "Sample request (/token)"

        ```bash
        curl -v -k -X POST {{base_url}}/oauth2/token \
        --header "Content-Type:application/x-www-form-urlencoded" \
        --data-urlencode "grant_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:device_code"
        --data-urlencode "client_id=bbwJEayR_OMwPkAgm9VOMzLnYLga"
        --data-urlencode "device_code=d3fe0db1-2334-48fa-b7d9-821ecfad10d5"
        ```

7. If the user grants access, the authorization server validates the verification code and responds with the access token.

    ```json
    {
    "access_token":"74d610ab-7f4a-3b11-90e8-279d76644fc7",
    "refresh_token":"fdb58069-ecc7-3803-9b8b-6f2ed85eff19",
    "token_type":"Bearer",

>     "expires_in":3042

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "expires_in":3600
```

        --data-urlencode "requested_token_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:access_token" \
        --data-urlencode "grant_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:token-exchange"
        ```

    
5. The authorization server responds to the client with the new access token.
6. The client application can now request resources from the resource server by providing the access token.
7. As the resource server trusts {{ product_name }} issued tokens, it returns the requested resources to the client application.

See [configure the token exchange flow]({{base_path}}/guides/authentication/configure-token-exchange) for more details.

## SAML 2.0 bearer grant

> SAML 2.0 bearer grant is a grant type in the OAuth 2.0 framework that enables the exchange of a SAML 2.0 assertion for an OAuth 2.0 access token. This grant type is defined in the [SAML 2.0 Profile for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication and Authorization Grants specification (RFC 7522)](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7522){:target="_blank"}.

Reviewer 2: This should only be available in product is docs. This grant type is not supported in Asgardeo.

4. The client application makes a token exchange request to the authorization server.

    === "Request format (/token)"

        ```bash
        curl -v -k -X POST {{base_url}}/oauth2/token \
        --header "Authorization: Basic <Base64Encoded(CLIENT_ID:CLIENT_SECRET)>" \
        --header "Content-Type:application/x-www-form-urlencoded" \
        --data-urlencode "grant_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:saml2-bearer" \
        --data-urlencode "assertion=<base64-URL_encoded_assertion>" \
        --data-urlencode "scope=<scope>" \
        ```
    
    === "Sample request (/token)"

        ```bash
        curl -v -k -X POST {{base_url_example}}/oauth2/token \
        --header "Authorization: Basic RWkwV2Y5YnpmTXE0UTBsZndTdlRQamU4a2NFYTpIRvvyUzJIUjlrZE9YMjBXTG9JNmY1eE1wdUlBamdKeG5aUVVUMV9lNTJnYQ==" \
        --header "Content-Type:application/x-www-form-urlencoded" \
        --data-urlencode "grant_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:saml2-bearer" \
        --data-urlencode "assertion=PD94bWwgdmVyc2lvbj0iMS4wIiBlbmNvZczpUcmFuc2Zvcm1zPgo8ZHM6VHJhbnNmb3JtIEFsZ29yaXRobT0iaHR0cDovL3d3zOlRyYW5zZm9ybXMaW" \

>         --data-urlencode "scope=PRODUCTION"

Reviewer: Let's use more than one scope in every sample

## Organization switch grant

The organization switch grant is a custom grant type in {{ product_name }} that enables users to switch between [organizations]({{base_path}}/guides/organization-management/) that exists in a hierarchical structure. The process involves using the authorization code grant to obtain an access token for the root organization and exchanging it to an access token usable within a child organization.

The following diagram illustrates this flow.

![How the organization switch grant works]({{base_path}}/assets/img/references/grants/organization-switch.png)

1. The user visits the client application and attempts to log in.
2. The client application redirects the authorization code request to the root organization.

    === "Request format (/authorize)"

        ``` bash
        {{base_url}}/oauth2/authorize
        ?response_type=code
        &client_id=<CLIENT_ID>
        &redirect_uri=<REDIRECT_URI>
        ```

    === "Sample request (/authorize)"

        ```bash
        {{base_url_example}}/oauth2/authorize
        ?response_type=code
        &client_id=cHuGSLCm77ApRFcsdyh_4sdFU2XYa

>         &redirect_uri=https://localhost:3000

Reviewer: include `scope` param

        ```

3. {{ product_name }} prompts the login page of the root organization's application.
4. The user selects the **SSO** authentication option.
5. The root organization prompts the user to enter the organization name.
6. The user enters the organization name.
7. The root organization sends an authorization code request to the child organization.
8. The child organization prompts the user to enter credentials.
9. The user enters the credentials.

> 10. The child organization sends the authorization code to the root organization.

Reviewer: Seems the steps and the flow in the digram is incorrect for organization swicth.

1. Invoke /oauth2/authorize request to root org
2. User in the root org authenticate 
3. Application receives the authz code
4. Application exchange the authz code to access token
5. Now user has an access token to access resources in root
6. if the same user has access granted in a sub organization (user has a shared user reference through sub org invite/ shared from org creation) he can switch the first access token to sub org token using organization switch grant

        --data-urlencode "scope=<scopes>" \
        ```
    
    === "Sample request (/token)"

        ```bash
        curl -v -k -X POST {{base_url_example}}/oauth2/token \
        --header "Authorization: Basic RWkwV2Y5YnpmTXE0UTBsZndTdlRQamU4a2NFYTpIRvvyUzJIUjlrZE9YMjBXTG9JNmY1eE1wdUlBamdKeG5aUVVUMV9lNTJnYQ==" \
        --header "Content-Type:application/x-www-form-urlencoded" \
        --data-urlencode "grant_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:saml2-bearer" \
        --data-urlencode "assertion=PD94bWwgdmVyc2lvbj0iMS4wIiBlbmNvZczpUcmFuc2Zvcm1zPgo8ZHM6VHJhbnNmb3JtIEFsZ29yaXRobT0iaHR0cDovL3d3zOlRyYW5zZm9ybXMaW" \
        --data-urlencode "scope=internal_idp_view internal_idp_create internal_organization_view"
        ```

5. The Authorization Server validates the SAML 2.0 assertion and if valid, generates a new access token and responds to the client with the new access token.
6. The client application can now request resources from the resource server by providing the access token.
7. As the resource server trusts {{ product_name }} issued tokens, it returns the requested resources to the client application.
{% endif %}

## Organization switch grant

> The organization switch grant is a custom grant type in {{ product_name }} that enables users to switch between [organizations]({{base_path}}/guides/organization-management/) that exists in a hierarchical structure. The process involves using the authorization code grant to obtain an access token for the root organization and exchanging it to an access token usable within a child organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The organization switch grant is a custom grant type in {{ product_name }} that enables users to switch between [organizations]({{base_path}}/guides/organization-management/) that exists in a hierarchical structure.
```

Reviewer: Shall we remove this because it id not the only path which works for organization switch

Reviewer: we can add this info below, because digram illustrates that case

> The following diagram illustrates this flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following diagram illustrates the process involves using the authorization code grant to obtain an access token for the root organization and exchanging it to an access token usable within a child organization flow.
```

> The following diagram illustrates the process of obtaining an access token using the authorization code grant for the root organization and exchanging it for an access token usable within a child organization flow.

Author: ```suggestion
The following diagram illustrates the process of obtaining an access token using the authorization code grant for the root organization and exchanging it for an access token usable within a child organization.
```

![How the organization switch grant works]({{base_path}}/assets/img/references/grants/organization-switch.png){:  width="800"}

- Steps 1-7 follows the [authorization code grant](#authorization-code-grant) and the client application obtains the necessary access tokens for the root organization.

- The client application then exchanges the received access token for another that can be used within the specified child organization.

    === "Request format (/token)"

        ``` bash
        curl -v -X POST {{base_url}}/oauth2/token \
        --header 'Authorization: Basic <base64 Encoded (clientId:clientSecret)>' \
        --header 'Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded' \
        --data-urlencode 'grant_type=organization_switch' \

>         --data-urlencode 'token={access token from root organization}' \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        --data-urlencode 'token={access token from an organization}' \
```

        --data-urlencode 'switching_organization={organization id}'
        ```
    
    === "Sample request (/token)"

        ``` bash
        curl -v -X POST {{base_url_example}}/oauth2/token \
        --header 'Authorization: Basic ejhSQjZ5c2REWmhlNFFPMHpKQVF6S2JpNlA0YTp6MEM3OXpsb3B4OGk3QnlPdzhLMTVBOWRwbFlh' \
        --header 'Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded' \
        --data-urlencode 'grant_type=organization_switch' \
        --data-urlencode 'token=54bd024f-5080-3db5-9422-785f5d610605' \
        --data-urlencode 'scope=openid internal_org_application_mgt_view' \
        --data-urlencode 'switching_organization=9e394cbf-70bf-532a-955d-0ef34597f2ef'
        ```

    After the root organization validates that the user is a member of the child organization, it returns the exchanged access token to the client application.

!!! Important

    - Although we used the authorization grant type, access tokens issued for a root organization user via other grant types can also be exchanged using the organization switch grant.

    - Apart from the use case explained above, access tokens can be exchanged in the following ways:

>         - Root organization user can exchange the access token with a grandchild organization or any other organization down the hierarchy as long as the application is shared with the relevant organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Root organization user can exchange the access token with a grandchild organization or any other organization down the hierarchy as long as the user has shared access with the relevant organization.
```
